Use arrow keys to scroll, press escape to exit
------------------------------------------------

Lore and Lutes
By: Andy Stone
See copying.txt for licensing information.

~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

  Welcome to Lore and Lutes! Be sure to read this
text if you haven't played L&L before:

  You start your adventure off in your home
village of Lockanburg after having a vision of
a man stabbing himself. Your neighbor Quaffton,
for whatever strange motives he may have, tells
you that the room where this man stabbed himself
exists in a far off city called Trisk.

  Always being a generally calm person it
suprises you as you have a great yearning to
actually find this room. Feelings overwhelm you.
You are oddly beconing toward this enchanted
chamber.

  The problem is you don't know where Trisk is,
or if it even exists. Quaffton tells you that
the townspeople know many things and advises you
to ask them.

Talking to towns people
-----------------------
  Townspeople can aid you in your quest. To talk
to a townsperson appraoch them by using the
arrow keys so that you are on an adjecent tile
to them. Then press the 't' key (for talk) and
specify the direction the towns person is
reletive to your character.

  When you begin your conversation you'll
see a small description of what the townsperson
looks like. You may then ask them a question. In
Lore and Lutes you ask questions by typing in
certain keywords. For instance if you wish to
ask a lighthouse keeper of his lighthouse you
would enter "lighthouse" and press enter.

  There are two special keywords you may
ask any townsperson. These keywords are:
Name and Job. A good way to start a conversation
is by asking a person about there "job" then
looking for certain keywords in their response
and asking about them. For instance if you
ask someone about their "job" they may tell you
that they forge armor for the gaurds. You can
then get more details, and a deeper conversation,
by asking about "armor" or "gaurds".

  Start your game by asking the townspeople in
Lockanburg about "Trisk". Pay attention to their
responses as they clue you into what your next
quest is.

The consoles
------------
Once you start the game you'll notice two
very important text consoles on the right
hand side of the screen. The top one displays
current information about your character and
the other members in his adventure party.
At the start of the game they'll only be
one member, you. The bottom one displays any
important information that comes up as you
move around, talk, search, and use items.

Moving, searching, looking, and getting
----------------------------------------
To move around Lockanburg use the arrow keys.
As you move around you'll notice areas that are
blacked out. These black tiles represent areas
that you can't see because something is
blocking your vision.

You'll also notice some obstacles that you
can climb over, such as fences. To climb over
something press the 'k' key and then specify
a direction.

When you get another vehicle, such as a boat
or a horse you can board the vehicle by moving
on top of it and pressing the 'b' key for board.
If you want to exit a boat, or demount a horse
press 'x' for exit.

A few objects can be pushed out of your way
if they're blocking you (such as chairs). To
move something something move adjecent to
it then use the 'p' key to push.

If your confused about exactly what a tile
is supposed to be you can look at it. Approach
the tile so that your character is adjacent
to it, press the 'l' key, and then use the
arrow keys to specify where this tile is
reletive to your character. A small description
of the tile will appear. If you look at signs
the text written on them will appear on the
screen.

Searching something will tell you if there's
anything interesting in it that you can get.
Like looking and talking to search you have to
move adjacent to what it is you want to search.
Then press the 's' and specify it. If you find
something interesting use 'g' to get the item.

For instance when you start the game you'll
be in Quaffton's house. If you search is
dresser drawers you'll find a potion. If you
wish to take it (steal it) use 'g' to get it.

Inventory and zStats.
---------------------
Whenever you get an item it will be added to
your inventory. To view what items you
have in your inventory press the 'z' key. This
will open up the zStats menu. To navigate the
zStats menu use the left and right arrow keys
to flip the current page. As you flip pages
you'll notice several interesting pages. These
pages include:

  * A list of your party members.
  * Detailed information about each member.
  * Your battle inventory. When you get a
    weapon or a peice of armor it will be listed
    in here. Anything in your battle inventory
    has to be equipped to be used.
  * Inventory. All items that don't have to be
    equipped to be used are listed here.
  * Your current gold and food. You use gold
    throughout the game to purchase items from
    merchents. Food is a neccessary item for
    survival.  Each member in your party eats 3
    pieces of  food per day. If you run out of
    food they will begin to starve and will
    slowly die. Be sure to have plenty of food!

  If you want to use an item in your inventory
press the 'u' key. This will bring up the
inventory menu again. Use the up and down arrow
keys to select an item and then press enter.

Equipping items in your inventory
----------------------------------
Any item in your battle inventory has to be
equipped to a party member before it can be
used. Battle inventory items include things
like swords and armor. To equip an item press
the 'r' key for ready, choose a party member, 
and then choose what items you wish to equip.
To unequip an item use 'r' to ready and then
select and choose items the party member already
has equipped. Items that have an (X) next to
them are equipped by the party member.

Day time, night time
--------------------
Lore and Lutes has a sense of time. You start
your adventure in the morning and every
step you take will increase the current time
by some amount.

You'll notice that the townspeople move about
during the day. For instance, the work in the
mornings and when evening comes around they'll
travel to their home or to the local tavern for
a meal.

You'll also notice that as night time approaches
you'll see less and less and eventually be
shrouded in darkness.

If you have torches in your inventory you can
use them to illuminate the area around you.
Use the 'i' key to ignite a torch.

Battle Mode
-----------
Lore and Lutes consists of two main modes.
Travel mode, the mode you start the game in
where you walk around and talk to people, and
battle mode. You enter battle mode whenever
a monster attacks you (or you attack a monster).

In battle mode a board of 11 x 11 tiles will
fill the screen just as it does in travel mode.
Unlike travel mode the screen doesn't scroll as
you move around. Also if you have multiple
members in your party you'll see them there
and you'll be able to control them.

Control works similiar to as it does in travel
mode. When it's your characters turn a flashing
box will surround him. You can move by using
the arrow keys. To attack (using your equipped
weapon) press the 'a' key. A flashing red box
will appear. Use the arrow keys to choose
your target and press space to use your
weapon there.

Pay close attention to your hit points 
which are displayed in the top right console.
If you reach 0 HP then you are dead. If it
looks like you're losing a battle you can try
to flee. Flee by moving your character off the
map. Every time you flee a battle your
experience points will decrease so avoid
fleeing whenever possible.

As you increase in hit points your character
will gain new levels. Whenever your character
is promoted a level he will get more HP and
often times other good characteristics. You
can not be demoted a level unless your character
dies. You gain experience by killing monsters.
If a monster flees the battle before you kill it you
will not get experince for it.

If you win the battle you can exit it by moving
all of your party members off the map or
pressing the escape key. You can not use
the escape key to exit before you have victory.

When you kill an enemy either their guts or
a chest will appear. Always search the guts
and chests for food. To get items in the
chest use the 'g' key the same way you
would in travel mode.

Saving your game and exitting Lore
----------------------------------
When you're finished playing, or want to
back up your current game, press the escape
key. A menu will come up. The save and load
buttons do as you would expect. The "Leave
Lore and Lutes" button exits the game. But
why would you want to do that?!

Pulling up this file
--------------------
During your adventures if you wish to view
this piece of text again press the 'h' key.
Good luck on your adventure!

Press escape to stop viewing this text file
and start playing already!